
----------------
Algorithms
----------------
Given a rotated array "k"times, find the number in most efficient way.
Write the most efficient algorithm to find square/square root of a number.
Write the most efficient algorithm to find if a number is prime or not.
Find Maximum sum in an array such that no 2 elements are adjacent. (geeks)
Find k largest elements in an array
Dynamic programming word break problem (geeks)
max length of increasing subsequence
Minimum number of platforms required in a ralway station (geek)
Given 2D sorted array, find kth largest element
Minimum number of steps to reach end of array from start (DP question)
Find count of a number in a sorted array
Find minimum number of swaps required for arranging pairs adjacent to each other


----------------
Graphs
----------------
How to determine whether a point is outside a polygon
Given a boolean 2D matrix, find the number of islands.(geeksogeeks)



----------------
Strings
----------------
Delete all characters in S that is common in both S and M.
String matching where one string contains wildcard characters.(geeksogeeks)
Standard Josephus problem (geeks)



----------------
Datastructures
----------------

Write a recursive function to reverse the contents of the 
linkedlist based Stack datastructure?
Implementation of heap and complexity

Data structure question: http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/a-data-structure-question/
Detect loop in linked list and return starting point of the loop.

Implement google autosuggest using trie

Draw a line on 2D array of boolean. You will be given start point and end point co-ordinates.



----------
Binary trees
----------
Given preorder and postorder, write a function to print inorder
of the tree?
Find total number of leaf nodes in a binary tree?
Print Left view of binary tree
BFS traversal of a binary tree
Find k distant nodes in a given tree. The parent paths also need to be printed
Find the Inorder predecessor and successor for a given key in BST
Given a binary tree, print its bottom view.


------
OOAD
-----
Implement MineSweeper Game

Give design for leader board implementation. 
1000 customers with maximum points should be displayed 
on the leader dashboard. UI should handle real time changes. 
A customer’s points are updated after each ride/order.

Design a logging library

Design the entire bowling alley system. One bowling game 
will be played by multiple players on a single lane.


Design a complete Railway Reservation System

Code snake and ladder solution

-------
System design
-------
Implement LRU
How would you split a search query across multiple machines?


